Lets look at the tutorial of the various views required for flight planning: top view, side view, linear view and table view.


At first, lets open top view and side view.

Now we will take some time to relocate it properly for a better visibility.


Now we will add some way points to plan the flight track.


As we make changes in the top view, simultaneously changes are also made in the side view, table view and linear view.


Basically, the different views are just different ways to showcase the same data from different perspectives.


Flight moves from Nagpur to Delhi to waypoint number 2 to waypoint number 3 and so on.

 
Then look at the web map service to check whether the way points chosen are correct. We are going to improvise the flight track with wms.


In the wms, we will open the server layer and click "select layer" list.


Then through open-mss dot org we will derive the layer list and load the capabilities.


Now the layer list is loaded and we drag it down just to create some space.


Now we will select different layers : divergence, equivalent potential temperature, relative humidity, etcetera.


Now while changing the levels, we can see the map at 250 hPa relative humidity, initialized from 17/10/2012 valid till 18/10/2012.


Based upon the analyzation on the map, we can change the waypoints like we can drag waypoint 5 downwards.


Thus wms helps us in analyzing and planning the way points on the map and plan the flight tracks flawlessly.


The wms layer list is different for top view and side view.


In the top view we can see various layers of pressure.


Similarly, now we click on the side view layer list and derive data from open-mss dot org.

Click on cloud cover vertical section and we can see blue clouds on the side view map.


Similarly, we can see horizontal wind, specific humidity, temperature and so on.


We can move the way point of Delhi to higher pressure say 450, move way point 3 to 550, way point 5 to 400, directly add way point 2 to 400, move way point 4 to 380 and so on.


Now lets close the layer list and open table view and enter the latitudinal and longitudinal data and simultaneously see changes in the top and side view.


We can click on way point 2 and it has list of options to select in the naming of the waypoints.


Suppose we select Juelich, the latitude and longitude gets changed accordingly.

Now we can name way point 3 as Brindisi Location A and way point 4 with user defined name Stop Point.


In this case the latitude and longitude remains the same, only the way point gets named.


In this table we can directly enter the values.


For example, in brindisi location A, the latitude remains the same and by changing the longitude value we can create a new way point.


Similarly, we can add comments to way point 9.


To insert a new way point, we can just click on sixth row and then insert and a completely new way point is created below way point 6.


Simultaneously, we can see the top view and side view also gets changed.


Click on the delete option to delete way point 10.


Clicking on reverse, the entire direction of flight track gets reversed.

Way point 0 now appears on the place of way point 11 and way point 11 appears on the place of way point 0.


Now lets close the table view and open linear view and see simultaneous changes in linear and side view.


In linear view, we see linearly how the flight profile gets changed with the change in latitude and longitude.


Linear view also has its own wms and layer list and we derive the layer list using open-mss dot org and retrieve the capabilities present in this layer.


Select horizontal wind and we can see the difference of horizontal wind at various way points denoted by lines.


Similarly we will select other layers and see its graphical presentation on the linear view.


In linear view we can only see the graphical representations of layer list data.

To add or delete way points we have to use the top or side views.


Finally we close the linear view.

Now closing the side view....


Now closing the top view....

Lastly, closing MSS...


This is how we can make use of the various views to plan a flight track.
