This is the Performance Settings dockwidget opened in the Table view of the MSS software where by putting and changing some parameters, we can evaluate the performance of the aircraft.


 Parameters like Flight Altitude, Aviation fuel, Aircraft weight, Maximum take off weight from one point to other in flight planning, etcetera, can be evaluated. 
 
Click on select to open control to open the performance settings dockwidget. 


There will be different attributes in the table view which will be used to evaluate the performance data of the dummy aircraft from this performance settings.

As we open the performance settings dockwidget, the panel for the settings opens up.


As we don’t have a real aircraft, we’ll take a dummy aircraft. 


Now we’ll have to select a file called dot json file stored in the MSS database in the syntax of dot json.

The information related to the performance data of the aircraft are stored here.

Click on the "select" option to select the Json file from the MSS docs database as an example. 


Click on show performance for the related data to be shown.

You can see the changes in the columns of the table view regarding the performance parameters of the aircraft.

Giving some examples, things like the change in flight time, fuel, aircraft weight, ceiling altitude, etc as the flight takes off from Nagpur and reaches Delhi, can be analysed.


There are options in the panel like take off time, maximum take off weight and aircraft weight without fuel.


We can change these settings to see the how the performance data changes.


Like, we now changed the maximum take off weight from ninety one thousands to eighty seven thousand kilograms.

And the aircraft weight without fuel from fifty six thousands to forty eight thousands kilograms.

Here you can see we changed the take off time from 6th August 2021 to 4th August 2021.

Then we can uncheck the box of show Performance and then click it again and there you can see the changes in the performance settings.


It just shows and hides the performance data.

Now we are going to close the topview.

It asks for confirmation whether we want to close it or not.

We select yes in the confirmation dialogue and it closes.

Next, we close the MSS main window.


It asks for confirmation whether to close it or not, again.

We then give the response as a yes, and thus the window closes!
