Mission Support Collaboration

MSColab stores data in an online server, and can be used to access the data remotely as also working in a team where everyone contributes his part. It is used for collaborating with the users as a team together and working on a shared MScolab project. 


to start with, click on Connect to MSColab, 

in the window opened, enter MSColab url and click on connect.

"successfully connected to the MSColab server"


we can enter Email id and Password for an existing user, else we can click on Add user to register a new user.


Filling new user Details, and clicking OK.

As, the user exists, we go back to cancel and enter the login page again!

logging into my profile by entering my user name and password.

Then clicking on the login button.

Now the user John Doe is logged in to MScolab.

He can now start working on shared project.

go to File  and then  new  and then MSColab Project option.

Add MSColab project

MSS project window opens


name the path, give the Description of the project.


we can also choose a flight track file or dot FTML file, which is stored on our computer.

Add project by clicking OK.


"your project was successfully created"

 
Double click on the shared project name to activate it.


while working on a shared file, we can control who can access this project.

go to Project and then, "Manage Users."

Admin Window-MSS pops up.

the left side has list of users without permission, while the right side has a list of those users who have been granted an access to this project.


In All Users without permission section, we can select all users at a time or deselect all of them, or we can search for  a user.

We search for the user "test" in the server.

Now we empty the search bar.

After selecting users, we click on Add button, which moves these users to All users with permission section to the right side of the window.


for the users who have access permission to the project, we can also change the access roles.

Here for b, we have changed the permission from collaborator to admin.

we can alo delete a user with a permission by selecting user and clicking on delete button.


Changing their access roles....


we can filter users based on their roles being Collaborator, admin or viewer.


Filtering for some time....


We can also communicate with fellow users in our project.


go to Project and then Chat option.

Click on it.

MSColab chat window pops up.

the left pan shows the list of people who have access to this project.


enter the message in the space provided.

Typing the texts.....

click on send button, or press Enter.


Typing another message....


we can upload files by clicking on upload and browsing for the file.


Here, we send the mss logo to all the users to see.

we can also search for a meassage by entering a phrase or complete text and then pressing previous or next as we need to find the message.


Next, we close the chat window.

Now, we will see how to manage version history.

We will go to projects and then click version history..

Version history is basically a record in the changes performed in the waypoints of the flight  track.

We can switch to a particular version history and name that version according to our choice or just checkout to that version.

In that case, the current waypoints will be changed to that version of waypoints and their locations.


Now we will just surf through all the version history.


We change the name of one version history to "Initial Waypoints" by clicking on "Name Version"

Now, we select another waypoint version and then checkout to that version by clicking on checkout button.

It asks for a confirmation.

Now we close the version history window...

We then select work asynchronously checkbox. It means that we are offline at present.

Later, we can save our changes to server or fetch new changes from the server changed by other people or the changes present on the server the last time.

We then open topview and move the waypoints for making changes...

We then open drop down menu of "save to server."

It will open a window.

We can either click overwite server waypoints with local waypoints or local waypoints with server waypoints.


We click overwite with local waypoints.

The server waypoint changes with the work we have done locally.

Now it gives a confirmation message. "Added local waypoints to server"

Now we will close the window.

We will again start work synchronously with other users by unchecking "Work Unsynchronously."

We can switch between local flight tracks and shared project by double clicking any one of them.

Remember, at any point only one flight track can be active, either local or shared.

Now we make changes in the topview of local flight track.

Opening topview and making the changes....

Adding waypoints....


We can see new waypoints are added here in a different fashion.

It is different from the first set of waypoints we have selected and added.

We now close the topview.

The local flight track got changed.


Now for confirming, we open the shared flightrack by activating it.

We open topview and can see it is different form local flightrack.

We now close the topview and answer the confirmation.


We now delete the project.

We have to retype its name for the confirmation for deleting it.

Now, we click on John Doe's User profile and we select the Profile of the user.

We can see his email and server its connected to!

Now, we log the user out.

We close the MSColab window and it asks for confirmation.

This is all about MSColab.
